Tagging method evaluation (#88)
nestauk/ai_genomics: ai_genomics/analysis/tag_evaluation/README.md

# Tagging Evaluation

> Two different types of tagging methods were explored to extract tags from texts across datasets (OpenAlex, crunchbase, patents, GtR): **DBpedia** and **Open Alex tagger**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two different types of tagging methods were explored to extract tags from texts across datasets (OpenAlex, Crunchbase, patents, Gateway to Research): **DBpedia Spotlight** and **Open Alex concept tagger**.
```

### Results

Some high level results from labelling the validation set are in the table below:

| tagging_method | # of false positives | # of false negatives | texts with at least 1 false positive (%) | texts with at least 1 false negative (%) | median # of tags |
| -------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| OpenAlex       | 52                   | 42                   | 62.5                                     | 60                                       | 7                |
| DBpedia        | 9                    | 22                   | 12.5                                     | 42.5                                     | 4                |

Examples of **OpenAlex false positives** include:

> avatar, unicorn, Class (philosophy), world wide web, gerontology

Reviewer: 🦄

Examples of **DBpedia false positives** include:

Zhou_dynasty, Master_of_Business_Administration, Microsoft_Edge, Marvel_Super_Heroes_Advanced_Set

Examples of **OpenAlex false negatives** include:

gene, microbiology, neural network, artificial intelligence, biomarkers

Examples of **DBpedia false negatives** include:

novel medicine, synthetic biology, precision oncology, pairwise comparison, precision medicine

Note that the much higher OpenAlex false positive % should be taken with a pinch of salt given no thresholding occurred with this tag method.

### Conclusions and considerations

> Although using DBpedia with a threshold of 0.6 results in fewer tags per text, the tags are more complete (few false negatives) and qualitatively, tend to be more granular. I suggest moving forward with DBpedia with the caveat that DBpedia often extracts places and institutions while OpenAlex did not. If we opt for DBpedia, we may want to deal with extracted place names and institutions by i.e. using spaCy's POS tags to filter them out.

Reviewer: Did you apply a threshold to the openalex concepts too? If not, would this significantly change the results?
